---
title: SFIA Skills
date: 2017-07-23 12:12:14
---
The Skills Framework for the Information Age can be found at http://www.sfia-online.org. It provides a range of key terms across categories of IT including strategy, change, development etc. Many of the terms are compatible with ITIL - another widely used IT framework. For each term, there is a range of autonomy levels that represent growth in experience and capability for the role.

This link references a tool developed at NIWA to allow rapid creation of a SFIA skills position description. The URL represents my current Skills description:

http://sfia.niwa.co.nz/#/GOVN-7+ITSP-7+IRMG-7+ISCO-7+SCTY-6+INAS-6+INAN-6+INAN-7+ICPM-4+CNSL-6+TECH-6+RSCH-6+ITMG-6+ITMG-7+FMIT-5+FMIT-6+INOV-6+BPRE-6+BPRE-7+STPL-5+BURM-5+EMRG-5+ARCH-5+DATM-6+METL-5+METL-6+POMG-6+PGMG-6+PRMG-6+BUAN-5+REQM-4+BPTS-5+DLMG-7+DTAN-4+DESN-5+DBDS-4+PROG-5+INCA-4+TEST-6+UNAN-5+HCEV-5+SLMO-6+CHMG-5+TEAC-5+PEMT-6+RESC-6+PDSV-6+SORC-5


<h1>Strategy and architecture</h1><h2>Information strategy</h2><h3>IT governance - GOVN</h3><p>The establishment and oversight of an organisation's approach to the use of information, digital services and associated technology. Includes responsibility for provision of digital services; levels of service and service quality which meet current and future business requirements; policies and practices for conformance with mandatory legislation and regulations; strategic plans for technology to enable the organisation's business strategy; transparent decision making, leading to justification for investment, with appropriate balance between stakeholder benefits, opportunities, costs, and risks.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Leads development and communication of the organisation's policies for corporate governance of information. Contributes to strategic plans, which satisfy the current and ongoing needs of the organisation's business strategy, and the current and future capabilities. Promotes clear decision making, leading to valid reasons for technology-related acquisitions. Monitors provision of services, levels of service and service quality. Assures that the organisation's business processes are compliant with relevant legislation, and that the organisation operates according to the principles embedded in relevant standards. Promotes policies, practices and decisions which recognise the current and evolving needs of all the stakeholders.</p><h3>IT strategy and planning - ITSP</h3><p>The creation, iteration and maintenance of a strategy in order to align IT plans with business objectives and the development of plans to drive forward and execute that strategy. Working with stakeholders to communicate and embed strategic management via objectives, accountabilities and monitoring of progress.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Leads the definition, implementation, communication of the organisation’s strategic management framework and directs the creation and review of an IT strategy and plans to support the strategic requirements of the business.</p><h3>Information management - IRMG</h3><p>The overall governance of how all types of information, structured and unstructured, whether produced internally or externally, are used to support decision-making, business processes and digital services. Encompasses development and promotion of the strategy and policies covering the design of information structures and taxonomies, the setting of policies for the sourcing and maintenance of the data content, and the development of policies, procedures, working practices and training to promote compliance with legislation regulating all aspects of holding, use and disclosure of data.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Specifies at a strategic level the business functions and data subjects needed to support future business and digital services, thereby enabling the development of an Information Architecture. Establishes and communicates the organisation's digital strategy, developing it as an integrated part of the business strategy. Directs digital resources, to create value for the stakeholders by improving the performance of the organisation, whilst maintaining the principles of professional standards, accountability, openness, equality and diversity and clarity of purpose. Responsible for compliance with regulations, standards and codes of good practice relating to information and records management, information assurance and data protection.</p><h3>Information systems coordination - ISCO</h3><p>Typically within a large organisation in which the information strategy function is devolved to autonomous units, or within a collaborative enterprise of otherwise independent organisations, the coordination of information strategy matters where the adoption of a common approach (such as shared services) would benefit the organisation.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Establishes, maintains and communicates the organisation's strategy for managing information and the policies, standards, procedures and methods necessary to implement the strategy. Coordinates all aspects of management of the life cycle of information systems. Represents the interests of the entire organisation to general management and external bodies on matters relating to information strategy.</p><h3>Information security - SCTY</h3><p>The selection, design, justification, implementation and operation of controls and management strategies to maintain the security, confidentiality, integrity, availability, accountability and relevant compliance of information systems with legislation, regulation and relevant standards.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Develops and communicates corporate information security policy, standards and guidelines. Contributes to the development of organisational strategies that address information control requirements. Identifies and monitors environmental and market trends and pro-actively assesses impact on business strategies, benefits and risks. Leads the provision of authoritative advice and guidance on the requirements for security controls in collaboration with experts in other functions e.g. legal, technical support. Ensures architectural principles are applied during design to reduce risk and drives adoption and adherence to policy, standards and guidelines.</p><h3>Information assurance - INAS</h3><p>The protection of integrity, availability, authenticity, non-repudiation and confidentiality of information and data in storage and in transit. The management of risk in a pragmatic and cost effective manner to ensure stakeholder confidence.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Develops corporate Information assurance policy, standards and guidelines. Contributes to the development of organisational strategies that address the evolving business risk and information control requirements. Drives adoption of and adherence to policies and standards through the provision of expert advice and guidance in order to ensure architectural principles are applied, requirements are defined and rigorous security testing is applied. Monitors environmental and market trends and pro-actively assesses impact on business strategies, benefits and risks.</p><h3>Analytics - INAN</h3><p>The validation and analysis of significant volumes of data, including the ability to discover and quantify patterns and trends in numbers, symbols, text, sound and image. Relevant techniques may include statistical and data mining algorithms and machine learning methods such as rule induction, artificial neural networks, genetic algorithms and automated indexing systems.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Establishes and manages analytical methods and techniques, such as predictive analytics, enterprise decision support, retail analytics and web analytics. Plans and implements the dissemination of methods and techniques.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Provides leadership and guidance for analysis of both internal and external data. Is responsible for the organisation's commitment to efficient and effective analysis of textual/numerical/visual/audio information. Identifies and establishes the veracity of external sources of information of relevance to the operational needs of the enterprise.</p><h3>Information content publishing - ICPM</h3><p>The evaluation and application of different publishing methods and options, recognising key features, including open source and proprietary options. The management and tuning of the processes that collect, assemble and publish information, including in unstructured and semi-structured forms, for delivery to the user at the point at which it is needed. The management of copyright, data protection and other legal issues associated with publishing and re-use of published information and data.</p><h4>Level 4</h4><p>Defines and manages content management processes to meet the needs of users. Select appropriate channels through which content should be published. Uses appropriate tools and techniques to provide moderately complex interfaces to new or existing platforms and applications. Applies propriety guidelines. Identifies the implications of copyright, data protection and other legal issues associated with publishing. Applies search engine optimisation techniques, and facilitates ease of use in delivered digital services.</p><h2>Advice and guidance</h2><h3>Consultancy - CNSL</h3><p>The provision of advice and recommendations, based on expertise and experience, to address client needs. May deal with one specialist subject area, or can be wide ranging and address strategic business issues. May also include support for the implementation of any agreed solutions.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Manages provision of consultancy services, and/or management of a team of consultants. In own areas of expertise, provides advice and guidance to consultants and/or the client through involvement in the delivery of consultancy services. Engages with clients and maintains client relationships. Establishes agreements/contracts and manages completion and disengagement.</p><h3>Technical specialism - TECH</h3><p>The development and exploitation of expertise in any specific area of information or communications technology, technique, method, product or application area.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Provides organisational leadership and guidelines to promote the development and exploitation of specialist knowledge in the organisation.</p><h2>Business strategy and planning</h2><h3>Research - RSCH</h3><p>The advancement of knowledge by data gathering, innovation, experimentation, evaluation and dissemination, carried out in pursuit of a predetermined set of research goals.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Sets research goals, makes effective proposals for the investment of funds in research projects, plays a major role in the development of the employing organisation's research policy, and supervises the work of a research function. Gains an appreciation of relevant research work, and takes a leading part in professional activities outside own employing organisation.</p><h3>IT management - ITMG</h3><p>The management of the IT infrastructure and resources required to plan for, develop, deliver and support IT services and products to meet the needs of a business. The preparation for new or changed services, management of the change process and the maintenance of regulatory, legal and professional standards. The management of performance of systems and services in terms of their contribution to business performance and their financial costs and sustainability. The management of bought-in services. The development of continual service improvement plans to ensure the IT infrastructure adequately supports business needs.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Identifies and manages resources needed for the planning, development and delivery of specified information and communications systems services (including data, voice, text, audio and images). Influences senior level customers and project teams through change management initiatives, ensuring that the infrastructure is managed to provide agreed levels of service and data integrity. Takes full responsibility for budgeting, estimating, planning and objective setting. Plans and manages implementation of processes and procedures, tools and techniques for monitoring and managing the performance of automated systems and services, in respect of their contribution to business performance and benefits to the business, where the measure of success depends on achieving clearly stated business/financial goals and performance targets. Monitors performance and takes corrective action where necessary.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Sets strategy for management of technology resources, including corporate telecommunications functions, and promotes the opportunities that technology presents to the employing organisation, including the feasibility of change and its likely impact upon the business. Authorises allocation of resources for the planning, development and delivery of all information systems services and products. Responsible for IT governance. Authorises organisational policies governing the conduct of management of change initiatives and standards of professional conduct. Maintains an overview of the contribution of programmes to organisational success. Inspires creativity and flexibility in the management and application of IT. Sets strategy for monitoring and managing the performance of IT-related systems and services, in respect of their contribution to business performance and benefits to the business.</p><h3>Financial management - FMIT</h3><p>The overall financial management, control and stewardship of the IT assets and resources used in the provision of IT services, including the identification of materials and energy costs, ensuring compliance with all governance, legal and regulatory requirements.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Advises on financial planning and budgeting. Develops financial plans and forecasts. Monitors and manages IT expenditure, ensuring that all IT financial targets are met, and examining any areas where budgets and expenditure exceed their agreed tolerances. Assists with the definition and operation of effective financial control and decision making, especially in the areas of service, projects and component cost models and the allocation and apportionment of all incurred IT costs. Analyses actual expenditure, explains variances, and advises on options in use of available budget.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Develops financial planning processes and standards to support execution of business strategy and promotes adoption and adherence. Sets strategy and develops plans, policies and processes for the accounting, budgeting and, where applicable, charging of IT resources and services, including the definition of cost models and charging models. Sets, negotiates, agrees and manages all financial budgets and targets, ensuring that there is adequate funding for all IT targets and plans, especially to meet development and capacity needs.  Analyses actual expenditure, explains variances, and determines options in use of available budget to meet real needs. Assesses financial performance and instigates required improvements.</p><h3>Innovation - INOV</h3><p>The capability to recognise and exploit business opportunities provided by information and communication technology, best practices, methods and standards, to ensure more efficient and effective performance of organisations, to explore possibilities for new ways of conducting business and organisational processes, and to establish new services or businesses.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Recognises potential strategic application of information technology capabilities. Initiates and manages investigation and development of innovative methods, practices and technology, to the benefit of organisations and the community. Plays an active and dynamic role in improving the interface between all interested parties, facilitating knowledge flow to enable sharing and development of creative ideas.</p><h3>Business process improvement - BPRE</h3><p>The identification of new and alternative approaches to performing business activities. The analysis of business processes, including recognition of the potential for automation of the processes, assessment of the costs and potential benefits of the new approaches considered and, where appropriate, management of change, and assistance with implementation. May include the implementation of a process management capability/discipline at the enterprise level.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Analyses business processes; identifies alternative solutions, assesses feasibility, and recommends new approaches, typically seeking to exploit technology components. Evaluates the financial, cultural, technological, organisational and environmental factors which must be addressed in the change programme. Establishes client requirements for the implementation of significant changes in organisational mission, business functions and process, organisational roles and responsibilities, and scope or nature of service delivery.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Brings about significant improvements and measurable business benefits by identifying, proposing, initiating and leading significant programmes of improvement. Enhances existing approaches to process improvement and/or develops new approaches.</p><h3>Enterprise and business architecture - STPL</h3><p>The creation, iteration, and maintenance of structures such as enterprise and business architectures embodying the key principles, methods and models that describe the organisation's future state, and that enable its evolution. This typically involves the interpretation of business goals and drivers; the translation of business strategy and objectives into an “operating model”; the strategic assessment of current capabilities; the identification of required changes in capabilities; and the description of inter-relationships between  people, organisation, service, process, data, information, technology and the external environment. The architecture development process supports the formation of the constraints, standards and guiding principles necessary to define, assure and govern the required evolution; this facilitates change in the organisation's structure, business processes, systems and infrastructure in order to achieve predictable transition to the intended state.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Contributes to the creation and review of a systems capability strategy which meets the strategic requirements of the business. Develops models and plans to drive forward the strategy, taking advantage of opportunities to improve business performance. Takes responsibility for investigative work to determine requirements and specify effective business processes, through improvements in information systems, data management, practices, procedures, organisation and equipment.</p><h3>Business risk management - BURM</h3><p>The planning and implementation of organisation-wide processes and procedures for the management of risk to the success or integrity of the business, especially those arising from the use of information technology, reduction or non-availability of energy supply or inappropriate disposal of materials, hardware or data.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Carries out risk assessment within a defined functional or technical area of business. Uses consistent processes for identifying potential risk events, quantifying and documenting the probability of occurrence and the impact on the business. Refers to domain experts for guidance on specialised areas of risk, such as architecture and environment. Co-ordinates the development of countermeasures and contingency plans.</p><h2>Technical strategy and planning</h2><h3>Emerging technology monitoring - EMRG</h3><p>The identification of new and emerging hardware, software and communication technologies and products, services, methods and techniques and the assessment of their relevance and potential value as business enablers, improvements in cost/performance or sustainability. The promotion of emerging technology awareness among staff and business management.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Monitors the market to gain knowledge and understanding of currently emerging technologies. Identifies new and emerging hardware and software technologies and products based on own area of expertise, assesses their relevance and potential value to the organisation, contributes to briefings of staff and management.</p><h3>Solution architecture - ARCH</h3><p>The design and communication of high-level structures to enable and guide the design and development of integrated solutions that meet current and future business needs. In addition to technology components, solution architecture encompasses changes to service, process, organisation, and operating models. Architecture definition must demonstrate how requirements (such as automation of business processes) are met, any requirements which are not fully met, and any options or considerations which require a business decision. The provision of comprehensive guidance on the development of, and modifications to, solution components to ensure that they take account of relevant architectures, strategies, policies, standards and practices (including security) and that existing and planned solution components remain compatible.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Uses appropriate tools, including logical models of components and interfaces, to contribute to the development of systems architectures in specific business or functional areas. Produces detailed component specifications and translates these into detailed designs for implementation using selected products. Within a business change programme, assists in the preparation of technical plans and cooperates with business assurance and project staff to ensure that appropriate technical resources are made available. Provides advice on technical aspects of system development and integration (including requests for changes, deviations from specifications, etc.) and ensures that relevant technical strategies, policies, standards and practices (including security) are applied correctly.</p><h3>Data management - DATM</h3><p>The management of practices and processes to ensure the security, integrity, safety and availability of all forms of data and data structures that make up the organisation’s information. The management of data and information in all its forms and the analysis of information structure (including logical analysis of taxonomies, data and metadata). The development of innovative ways of managing the information assets of the organisation.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>From an understanding of current and future business, derives an overall strategy of data management, within an established information architecture (including both structured and unstructured data), that supports the development and secure operation of existing and new information and digital services. Takes overall responsibility for planning effective data storage, security, sharing and publishing within the organisation. Plans establishes and manages processes to access and independently validate external information from multiple sources, on a regular and consistent basis.</p><h3>Methods and tools - METL</h3><p>Ensuring that appropriate methods and tools for the planning, development, testing, operation, management and maintenance of systems are adopted and used effectively throughout the organisation.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Promotes and ensures use of appropriate techniques, methodologies and tools.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Sets direction and leads in the introduction and use of techniques, methodologies and tools, to match overall business requirements (both current and future), ensuring consistency across all user groups.</p><h1>Change and transformation</h1><h2>Business change implementation</h2><h3>Portfolio management - POMG</h3><p>The development and application of a systematic management framework to define and deliver a portfolio of programmes, projects and/or ongoing services, in support of specific business strategies and objectives. Includes the implementation of a strategic investment appraisal and decision making process based on a clear understanding of cost, risk, inter-dependencies, and impact on existing business activities, enabling measurement and objective evaluation of potential changes and the benefits to be realised. The prioritisation of resource utilisation and changes to be implemented. The regular review of portfolios. The management of the service pipeline (proposed or in development), service catalogue (live or available for deployment) and retired services.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Leads the definition of a portfolio of programmes, projects, and/or on-going service provision. Engages and influences senior managers to ensure the portfolio will deliver the agreed business objectives. Plans, schedules, monitors and reports on activities related to the portfolio to ensure that each part of the portfolio contributes to the overall achievement of the portfolio. Collects, summarises and reports on portfolio KPIs often through the deployment of business management processes and systems. Identifies issues with portfolio structure, cost, risk, inter-dependencies, impact on current business activities and the strategic benefits to be realised. Notifies projects/programmes/change initiatives of issues and recommends and monitors corrective action. Reports on portfolio status as appropriate.</p><h3>Programme management - PGMG</h3><p>The identification, planning and coordination of a set of related projects within a programme of business change, to manage their interdependencies in support of specific business strategies and objectives. The maintenance of a strategic view over the set of projects, providing the framework for implementing business initiatives, or large-scale change, by conceiving, maintaining and communicating a vision of the outcome of the programme and associated benefits. (The vision, and the means of achieving it, may change as the programme progresses). Agreement of business requirements, and translation of requirements into operational plans. Determination, monitoring, and review of programme scope, costs, and schedule, programme resources, inter-dependencies and programme risk.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Plans, directs, and co-ordinates activities to manage and implement a programme from contract /proposal initiation to final operational stage including the transition into “business-as-usual”; plans, schedules, monitors, and reports on activities related to the programme. Ensures that programmes are managed to realise business benefits and that programme management is informed by an awareness of current technical developments.</p><h3>Project management - PRMG</h3><p>The management of projects, typically (but not exclusively) involving the development and implementation of business processes to meet identified business needs, acquiring and utilising the necessary resources and skills, within agreed parameters of cost, timescales, and quality.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Takes full responsibility for the definition, documentation and successful completion of complex projects (typically with significant business, political, or high-profile impact, and high-risk dependencies). Selects methods and tools, using iterative techniques where appropriate, ensuring that effective project control, change control, risk management and testing processes are maintained.  Monitors and controls resources, revenue and capital costs against the project budget and manages expectations of all project stakeholders.</p><h2>Business change management</h2><h3>Business analysis - BUAN</h3><p>The methodical investigation, analysis, review and documentation of all or part of a business in terms of business functions and processes, the information used and the data on which the information is based. The definition of requirements for improving processes and systems, reducing their costs, enhancing their sustainability, and the quantification of potential business benefits. The collaborative creation and iteration of viable specifications and acceptance criteria in preparation for the deployment of information and communication systems.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Takes responsibility for investigative work to determine business requirements and specify effective business processes, through improvements in information systems, information management, practices, procedures, and organisation change. Applies and monitors the use of modelling and analysis tools, methods and standards, giving special consideration to business perspectives. Collaborates with stakeholders at all levels, in the conduct of investigations for strategy studies, business requirements specifications and feasibility studies. Prepares business cases which define potential benefits, options for achieving these benefits through development of new or changed processes, and associated business risks.</p><h3>Requirements definition and management - REQM</h3><p>The definition and management of the business goals and scope of change initiatives. The specification of business requirements to a level that enables effective delivery of agreed changes.</p><h4>Level 4</h4><p>Facilitates scoping and business priority-setting for change initiatives of medium size and complexity. Contributes to selection of the most appropriate means of representing business requirements in the context of a specific change initiative, ensuring traceability back to source. Discovers and analyses requirements for fitness for purpose as well as adherence to business objectives and consistency, challenging positively as appropriate. Obtains formal agreement by stakeholders and recipients to scope and requirements and establishes a base-line on which delivery of a solution can commence. Manages requests for and the application of changes to base-lined requirements. Identifies the impact on business requirements of interim (e.g. migration) scenarios as well as the required end position.</p><h3>Business process testing - BPTS</h3><p>The planning, design, management, execution and reporting of business process tests and usability evaluations. The application of evaluation skills to the assessment of the ergonomics, usability and fitness for purpose of defined processes. This includes the synthesis of test tasks to be performed (from statement of user needs and user interface specification), the design of an evaluation programme, the selection of user samples, the analysis of performance, and inputting results to the development team.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Designs and manages tests of new/updated processes. Specifies test environment for whole life-cycle testing (e.g. using model office concept). Manages selection/creation of relevant scenarios for testing and ensures that tests reflect realistic operational business conditions. Ensure tests and results are documented, reported to stakeholders and are available for specification of user instructions. Highlights issues and risks identified during testing to business stakeholders. Provides specialist guidance and advice to less experienced colleagues and users to ensure that test are conducted in an appropriate manner.</p><h1>Development and implementation</h1><h2>Systems development</h2><h3>Systems development management - DLMG</h3><p>The management of resources in order to plan, estimate and carry out programmes of solution development work to time, budget and quality targets and in accordance with appropriate standards, methods and procedures (including secure software development).The facilitation of improvements by changing approaches and working practices, typically using recognised models, best practices, standards and methodologies. The provision of advice, assistance and leadership in improving the quality of software development, by focusing on process definition, management, repeatability and measurement.</p><h4>Level 7</h4><p>Sets strategy for resource management within solution development, authorises the allocation of resources for solution development programmes, and maintains an overview of the contribution of such programmes to organisational success. Continuously seeks to improve solution development processes and/or develops new approaches to achieving improvement. Liaises with client functions to establish business requirements and identifies, proposes, initiates and leads significant solution development programmes. Manages the quality and appropriateness of the work performed and delivers measurable business benefits.</p><h3>Data analysis - DTAN</h3><p>The investigation, evaluation, interpretation and classification of data, in order to define and clarify information structures which describe the relationships between real world entities. Such structures facilitate the development of software systems, links between systems or retrieval activities.</p><h4>Level 4</h4><p>Investigates corporate data requirements, and applies data analysis, data modelling and quality assurance techniques, to establish, modify or maintain data structures and their associated components (entity descriptions, relationship descriptions, attribute definitions). Provides advice and guidance to database designers and others using the data structures and associated components.</p><h3>Systems design - DESN</h3><p>The specification and design of information systems to meet defined business needs in any public or private context, including commercial, industrial, scientific, gaming and entertainment. The identification of concepts and their translation into implementable design. The design or selection of components. The retention of compatibility with enterprise and solution architectures, and the adherence to corporate standards within constraints of cost, security and sustainability.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Specifies and designs large or complex systems. Selects appropriate design standards, methods and tools, consistent with agreed enterprise and solution architectures and ensures they are applied effectively. Reviews others' systems designs to ensure selection of appropriate technology, efficient use of resources, and integration of multiple systems and technology. Contributes to policy for selection of architecture components. Evaluates and undertakes impact analysis on major design options and assesses and manages associated risks. Ensures that the system design balances functional, service quality, security and systems management requirements.</p><h3>Database design - DBDS</h3><p>The specification, design and maintenance of mechanisms for storage and access to both structured and unstructured information, in support of business information needs.</p><h4>Level 4</h4><p>Develops and maintains specialist knowledge of database concepts, object and data modelling techniques and design principles and a detailed knowledge of database architectures, software and facilities. Analyses data requirements to establish, modify or maintain object/data models. Evaluates potential solutions, demonstrating, installing and commissioning selected products.</p><h3>Programming/software development - PROG</h3><p>The design, creation, testing and documenting of new and amended software components from supplied specifications in accordance with agreed development and security standards and processes.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Sets local or team-based standards for programming tools and techniques, including security guidelines, and the selection of appropriate development methods. Advises on application of standards and methods and ensures compliance. Takes technical responsibility for all stages and/or iterations in a software development project, providing method specific technical advice and guidance to project stakeholders. Assigns work packages, monitors performance and manages change control dynamically, to optimise productivity. Provides advice, guidance and assistance to less experienced colleagues as required.</p><h3>Information content authoring - INCA</h3><p>The management and application of the principles and practices of designing, creation and presentation of textual information, supported where necessary by graphical content for interactive and digital uses. The adoption of workflow principles and definition of user roles and engagement and training of content providers. This material may be delivered electronically (for example, as collections of web pages) or otherwise. This skill includes managing the quality assurance and authoring processes for the material being produced.</p><h4>Level 4</h4><p>Engages with senior content owners, using objective evidence to determine the content needs of users. Controls, monitors and evaluates web content to ensure quality, consistency and accessibility of messages. Designs the content and appearance of complex information deliverables (e.g. web pages) in collaboration with clients/users. Moderates content and ensures it can be reused. Creates and tests complex, well-engineered deliverables to support simple, clear, fast services. Interprets analytics data to optimise content so that it meets user needs and is optimised for search engines. Reviews work of other content designers for consistency and accuracy, and takes responsibility for its publication. Understand the implications of publishing content and manages the risks of doing so.</p><h3>Testing - TEST</h3><p>The planning, design, management, execution and reporting of tests, using appropriate testing tools and techniques and conforming to agreed process standards and industry specific regulations. The purpose of testing is to ensure that new and amended systems, configurations, packages, or services, together with any interfaces, perform as specified (including security requirements) , and that the risks associated with deployment are adequately understood and documented. Testing includes the process of engineering, using and maintaining testware (test cases, test scripts, test reports, test plans, etc) to measure and improve the quality of the software being tested.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Determines testing policy, and owns the supporting processes including software security testing. Takes responsibility for the management of all testing activities within a development or integration project or programme. Manages all risks associated with the testing and takes preventative action when any risks become unacceptable. Assesses and advises on the practicality of testing process alternatives, including automated testing. Initiates improvements to test processes and directs their implementation. Assesses suppliers' development and testing capabilities. Determines project testing standards for all phases, influencing all parties to conform to those standards. Manages client relationships with respect to all testing matters.</p><h2>User experience</h2><h3>User experience analysis - UNAN</h3><p>The identification, analysis, clarification and communication of the context of use in which applications will operate, and of the goals of  products, systems or services. Analysis and prioritisation of stakeholders’ “user experience” needs and definition of required system behaviour and performance. Resolution of potential conflicts between user requirements and determination of usability objectives</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Analyses the implications of the context of use for system development. Advises on tools and methods to be used and clarifies and communicates the user experience, users' characteristics and tasks, and the technical, organisational and physical environment in which products or systems will operate. Advises on interpretation of the organisation’s branding for new digital environments.</p><h3>User experience design - HCEV</h3><p>The iterative development of user tasks, interaction and interfaces to meet user requirements, considering the whole user experience. Refinement of design solutions in response to user-centred evaluation and feedback and communication of the design to those responsible for implementation.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Develops visual user experiences across digital assets by guiding project teams to evolve  key elements of a digital proposition. Combines understanding of customers and market conditions, with knowledge of digital trends, to create concepts that are both user-centred and competitively differentiating.   Facilitates the generation of new concepts and ideas and illustrates concepts with impact. Manages client expectations, explaining the costs and benefits of user experience activities, and advising on risks resulting from poor user experience.</p><h1>Delivery and operation</h1><h2>Service design</h2><h3>Service level management - SLMO</h3><p>The planning, implementation, control, review and audit of service provision, to meet customer business requirements. This includes negotiation, implementation and monitoring of service level agreements, and the ongoing management of operational facilities to provide the agreed levels of service, seeking continually and proactively to improve service delivery and sustainability targets.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Ensures that a catalogue of available services is created and maintained and that service level agreements are complete and cost effective. Ensures that service delivery is monitored effectively and that identified actions to maintain or improve levels of service are implemented. Ensures that operational methods, procedures, facilities and tools are established, reviewed and maintained. Negotiates with relevant parties in respect of disruptions and major amendments to the provision of services. Reviews service delivery to ensure that agreed targets are met and prepares proposals to meet forecast changes in the level or type of service.</p><h2>Service transition</h2><h3>Change management - CHMG</h3><p>The management of change to the service infrastructure including service assets, configuration items and associated documentation. Change management uses requests for change (RFC) for standard or emergency changes, and changes due to incidents or problems to provide effective control and reduction of risk to the availability, performance, security and compliance of the business services impacted by the change.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Develops implementation plans for complex requests for change. Evaluates risks to the integrity of service environment inherent in proposed implementations (including availability, performance, security and compliance of the business services impacted). Seeks authority for those activities, reviews the effectiveness of change implementation, suggests improvement to organisational procedures governing change management. Leads the assessment, analysis, development, documentation and implementation of changes based on requests for change.</p><h1>Skills and quality</h1><h2>Skill management</h2><h3>Teaching and subject formation - TEAC</h3><p>The specification, design, development, delivery and assessment of curricula for computing and for information technology (including electronic communication), at any level of the education system from primary through to tertiary (all age ranges) and in the workplace. The topics addressed are those of the fundamental and more advanced areas of computing and the common skills needed to make productive use of computers and IT systems for both computing and IT professionals and competent users of IT based systems including the ideas of computational thinking and the application of computational concepts to everyday and professional life. Special attention is paid to the methods, techniques and pedagogy (the study of being a teacher, tutor or lecturer, and the process of teaching) of computing  IT education.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Delivers computing and IT curricula either in a formal educational context from primary through to tertiary level or in the workplace. Specialises in delivering Computing and IT education at the relevant educational level. Is aware of the techniques and methods used to evaluate and critique research in computing and IT education and applies good practice in learning content design, development and delivery.</p><h2>People management</h2><h3>Performance management - PEMT</h3><p>The optimisation of performance of people, including determination of capabilities, integration into teams, allocation of tasks, direction, support, guidance, motivation, and management of performance.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Manages individuals within change and/or service delivery environments. Allocates management and supervisory responsibilities. Provides coaching and support and delegates responsibilities where possible, in order to achieve corporate objectives. Mentors and influences senior individuals in consideration of their career opportunities and contribution to the organisation. Sets performance objectives, and monitors progress against agreed quality and performance criteria. Initiates, develops and monitors effective performance management processes. Leads on formal processes such as compensation negotiations and disciplinary procedures.</p><h3>Resourcing - RESC</h3><p>The overall resource management of the workforce to enable effective operation of the organisation. Provision of advice on any aspect of acquiring resources, including employees, consultants and contractors.</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Develops and communicates resource management policy, standards and guidelines in line with the organisation’s strategic human resource plans. Takes overall responsibility for resource planning, recruitment, selection, assessment, on-boarding and transitioning of resources. Leads the development of plans to ensure that the organisation has appropriately skilled resources to meet organisational objectives and commitments. Ensures that expert support is provided as required. Audits and assesses the ongoing success and effectiveness of resource management processes such as retention analysis, media and supplier assessment, customer satisfaction and validation of selection methods.</p><h3>Professional development - PDSV</h3><p>The facilitation of the professional development of individuals, including initiation, monitoring, review and validation of learning and development plans in line with organisational or business requirements. The counselling of participants in all relevant aspects of their continual professional development. The identification of appropriate learning/development resources. Liaison with internal and external training providers. The evaluation of the benefits of continual professional development activities."</p><h4>Level 6</h4><p>Determines organisational development needs in line with business needs and strategic direction. Generates development strategies to achieve required change. Develops and leads communities of practice, including defining career pathways. Monitors progress and evaluates business benefits achieved from continual professional development.</p><h1>Relationships and engagement</h1><h2>Stakeholder management</h2><h3>Sourcing - SORC</h3><p>The provision of policy, internal standards and advice on the procurement or commissioning of externally supplied and internally developed products and services. The provision of commercial governance, conformance to legislation and assurance of information security. The implementation of compliant procurement processes, taking full account of the issues and imperatives of both the commissioning and supplier sides. The identification and management of suppliers to ensure successful delivery of products and services required by the business.</p><h4>Level 5</h4><p>Researches suppliers and markets, and maintains a broad understanding of the commercial environment, to inform and develop commercial strategies and sourcing plans. Advises on the business case for alternative sourcing models, and on policy and procedures covering the selection of suppliers, tendering, and procurement. Leads procurement teams, managing tender, evaluation and acquisition processes. Negotiates with potential partners and suppliers, developing acceptance criteria and procedures. Drafts and places contracts. Carries out benchmarking and ensures that supplier performance is properly monitored and regularly reviewed. Liaises with designated supplier(s), and manages and implements supplier service improvement actions and programmes.</p>
